 (b) Requests for cryptologic information shall be processed in accordance with
section 7 of this enclosure.

 (c) The DoD Component that initially received or classified FGI shall determine
whether the information is subject to a treaty or international agreement that does not permit
unilateral declassification. (Refer also to section 20 of this enclosure.)

 (3) The information is not the subject of pending litigation.

 (4) The information is not contained within an operational file that is exempt from search
and review, or disclosure, pursuant to sections 3141, 3142, 3143 and 3144 of Reference (af) or
other applicable statute.

 (5) The information has not been reviewed for declassification within the preceding
2 years. If the requested information has been reviewed for declassification within the 2 years
preceding the request, the DoD Component shall notify the requester of the prior review decision
and provide appeal rights information. No further review is required.

 (6) The information was not originated by the incumbent President or the incumbent
Vice President, the incumbent President’s White House staff, or the incumbent Vice President’s
staff, committees, commissions, or boards appointed by the incumbent President, or other entities
within the Executive Office of the President that solely advise and assist the incumbent
President. Information so originated is exempt from the provisions of this section.

 (7) The request was submitted to a Defense Intelligence Component by a U.S. citizen or
an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence; otherwise, the request may be denied.

 c. A DoD Component may refuse to confirm or deny the existence or nonexistence of
requested information when the fact of its existence or nonexistence is properly classified.

 d. DoD Components shall either make a prompt declassification determination and notify the
requester accordingly, or inform the requester of the additional time needed to process the
request. DoD Components shall ordinarily make a final determination within 1 year from the
date of receipt.

 (1) In making a declassification determination DoD Components shall determine
whether the information continues to meet the requirements for classification. Information to be
withheld must not only qualify for classification under the criteria identified in paragraph 1.b of
Enclosure 4, but there also must be a current basis for continued classification.

