 a. Recognition of cryptologic information is not always easy since it may concern or reveal
the processes, techniques, operations, and scope of signals intelligence, which consists of
communications intelligence, electronic intelligence, and foreign instrumentation signals
intelligence, or it may concern IA, which includes COMSEC, including the communications
portion of cover and deception plans. Much cryptologic information is also considered FGI.

 b. NSA/CSS has established special procedures for mandatory review for declassification of
classified cryptologic information. For questions regarding cryptographic equities or for
referrals for declassification determination, contact:

 Director, National Security Agency/
 Chief, Central Security Service
 ATTN: Declassification Services (DJP5)
 Fort George G. Meade, MD 20755-6248

8. PERMANENTLY VALUABLE RECORDS

 a. Classified information in records that are scheduled for retention by NARA as
permanently valuable records when that information is less than 20 years old shall be subject to
the automatic declassification provisions of section 12 of this enclosure when the information is
25 years old.

 b. Classified information in records that are scheduled for retention by NARA as
permanently valuable records when that information is already more than 20 years old shall be
subject to the automatic declassification provisions of section 12 of this enclosure 5 years from
the date the records are scheduled.

9. RECORDS DETERMINED NOT TO HAVE PERMANENT HISTORICAL VALUE.
Classified records determined not to be permanently valuable and not scheduled retention by
NARA are subject to the automatic declassification provisions of this issuance. The disposition
(destruction) date of those records in the DoD Component’s Records Control Schedule or
General Records Schedule approved by NARA shall be used as the declassification date,
although the duration of classification may be extended if a record has been retained for business
reasons beyond its scheduled destruction date. If the disposition date extends beyond 25 years,
an exemption request must be submitted to and approved by the ISCAP in accordance with the
procedure in section 13 of this enclosure.

