Pending determination, the document or material containing the information shall be protected at
the highest level of classification specified by the sources.

5. DURATION OF CLASSIFICATION. Every time a classified document is created, a
determination must be made regarding how long the information is to be protected (i.e., when the
information will lose its sensitivity and no longer merit or qualify for classification). This is an
essential part of the classification process. For derivatively classified information, the most
restrictive declassification instruction (i.e., the one that specifies the longest duration of
classification) must be carried forward from the source document(s), security classification
guide(s) or other classification guidance provided by the OCA. Specific guidance on
determining the most restrictive instruction is provided in Enclosure 3 of Volume 2.

6. CLASSIFICATION OF ACQUISITION INFORMATION. Classifying information involved
in the DoD acquisition process shall conform to the requirements of DoDD 5000.01 (Reference
(az)) and DoDI 5000.02 (Reference (ba)), as well as this enclosure. Security classification
guides should be updated to include classified critical program information identified as part of
the program protection planning process required by DoDI 5200.39 (Reference (bb)).

7. CLASSIFICATION OF INFORMATION RELEASED TO THE PUBLIC

 a. Classified Information Released Without Proper Authority

 (1) Classified information that has been released to the public without proper authority
(e.g., media leak, data spill) remains classified. It may be declassified upon such a determination
by the appropriate OCA. Enclosure 6 of Volume 3 of this Manual identifies issues to be
considered when making the decision. When the determination is made that the information will
remain classified, the appropriate OCA will notify known authorized holders accordingly and
provide the following marking guidance to be used in the event the information is not marked:

 (a) Overall level of classification.

 (b) Portion markings.

 (c) Identity, by name or personal identifier and position, of the OCA.

 (d) Declassification instructions.

 (e) Concise reason for classification.

 (f) Date the action was taken.

 (2) Holders of the information shall take administrative action, as needed, to apply
markings and controls. DoD personnel shall not publicly acknowledge the release of classified

information and must be careful not to make any statement or comment that confirms the
accuracy of or verifies the information requiring protection.

