 c. NATO Briefing for Cleared Personnel. To facilitate potential access to NATO classified
information, all DoD military and civilian personnel who are briefed on their responsibilities for
protecting U.S. classified information shall be briefed simultaneously on the requirements for
protecting NATO information. A written acknowledgement of the individual’s receipt of the
NATO briefing and responsibilities for safeguarding NATO classified information shall be
maintained. As stipulated in Reference (u), access to NATO classified information shall also

require a supervisor’s determination of the individual’s need to know and possession of the
requisite security clearance. Receipt of the NATO briefing shall be verified prior to granting
access to NATO classified information.

 d. Access By Individuals Outside the Executive Branch. See section 6, Enclosure 2 of
Volume 3 of this Manual for further guidance regarding access to classified information by
individuals outside the Executive Branch.

13. PROTECTION REQUIREMENTS. Classified information and CUI shall be protected at all
times. Volumes 1 through 3 of this Manual provide guidance for the protection of classified
information while Volume 4 provides guidance for the protection of CUI. Additional guidance
for special types of information is provided by this section.

 a. Protection of Restricted Data (RD) and Formerly Restricted Data (FRD). Classified
information, including Critical Nuclear Weapon Design Information (CNWDI), in the custody of
the Department of Defense marked as RD or FRD in accordance with the Atomic Energy Act of
1954, as amended, shall be stored, protected, and destroyed as this Manual requires for other
information of a comparable level of security classification.

 (1) Consult DoDI 5210.02 (Reference (as)) for DoD policy and procedures concerning
access to and dissemination of RD, FRD, and CNWDI within the Department of Defense.
Reference (as) also provides guidance on access, distribution, handling, and accountability of
Sigma information.

 (2) Until DoD public key infrastructure is generally deployed on the Secret Internet
Protocol Router Network (SIPRNET), the following security measures, deemed sufficient to
provide the access and dissemination controls required by Reference (as), shall be implemented
when processing RD and CNWDI on SIPRNET:

