10. EXTENDING CLASSIFICATION BEYOND 25 YEARS FOR UNSCHEDULED
RECORDS. For unscheduled classified records (both permanent and temporary), the duration of
classification beyond 25 years shall be determined when the records are scheduled (i.e., when
NARA has approved a records control schedule that can be used to determine their final
disposition). Permanently valuable records must be scheduled before they are 25 years old in
order to request ISCAP approval to extend classification beyond 25 years when applicable.
Contact the DoD Component Records Manager for further guidance on scheduling records.

11. CLASSIFIED INFORMATION IN THE CUSTODY OF CONTRACTORS, LICENSEES,
GRANTEES, OR OTHER AUTHORIZED PRIVATE ORGANIZATIONS OR INDIVIDUALS.
Pursuant to the provisions of Reference (ab), DoD Components must provide security

classification and declassification guidance to contractors, licensees, grantees, or other
authorized private organizations or individuals who possess DoD classified information. DoD
Components must also determine if classified records are held by such entities, and, if so,
whether they are permanent records of historical value and thus subject to automatic
declassification. Until such a determination has been made by an appropriate official, the
classified information contained in such records shall not be subject to automatic declassification
and shall be safeguarded in accordance with the most recent security classification or
declassification guidance provided by the DoD Component.

12. AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATION. Reference (d) establishes a system for
declassification of information in permanently valuable historical records. DoD Component
declassification activities shall conduct reviews of records eligible for automatic declassification
in accordance with the procedures specified in this enclosure and Reference (f) and by the NDC.

 a. Deadline. All permanently valuable records shall be reviewed for declassification by
December 31 of the year in which they become 25 years old. Unless the document warrants
continued classification in accordance with an authorized exclusion (see paragraph 12.e of this
section) or an ISCAP-approved exemption (see section 13 of this enclosure), or qualifies for a
delay of automatic declassification in accordance with paragraph 12.g. of this section, the
documents shall be declassified.

