classifier. An individual who makes a classification determination and applies a security
classification to information or material. A classifier may be an OCA or a person who
derivatively assigns a security classification based on a properly classified source or a
classification guide.

collateral information. All national security information classified Confidential, Secret, or Top
Secret under the provision of an Executive order for which special systems of compartmentation
(such as SCI or SAP) are not formally required.

compilation. An aggregation of preexisting items of information.

compromise. An unauthorized disclosure of classified information.

COMSEC. The protection resulting from all measures designed to deny unauthorized persons
information of value that might be derived from the possession and study of telecommunications
and to ensure the authenticity of such communications. COMSEC includes cryptosecurity,
emission security, transmission security, and physical security of COMSEC material and
information.

confidential source. Any individual or organization that has provided, or that may reasonably be
expected to provide, information to the United States on matters pertaining to the national
security with the expectation that the information or relationship, or both, are to be held in
confidence.

control. The authority of the agency that originates information, or its successor in function, to
regulate access to the information.

CUI. Unclassified information requiring safeguarding or dissemination controls, pursuant to and
consistent with applicable law, regulations, and Government-wide policies. Some CUI may also
be export-controlled or protected by contract. Release or disclosure of CUI to foreign
governments or international organizations must be in accordance with Reference (z) and other
policy and procedures established by the USD(P). See Volume 4 of this Manual for further
information regarding CUI.

date of original classification. The date a document is determined to be classified. For example,
classification would begin from the date a document is created, not from the date of any security
classification guide used to authorize classification of that document.

damage to the national security. Harm to the national defense or foreign relations of the United
States from the unauthorized disclosure of information, taking into consideration such aspects of
the information as the sensitivity, value, utility, and provenance of that information.

