3. PERSONAL RESPONSIBILITY. All personnel of the Department of Defense are personally
and individually responsible for properly protecting classified information and CUI under their
custody and control. All officials within the Department of Defense who hold command,
management, or supervisory positions have specific, non-delegable responsibility for the quality
and effectiveness of implementation and management of the information security program within
their areas of responsibility.

4. NATIONAL AUTHORITIES FOR SECURITY MATTERS

 a. President of the United States. The President of the United States bears executive
responsibility for the security of the Nation, which includes the authority to classify information
for the protection of the national defense and foreign relations of the United States. The
President has established standards for the classification, safeguarding, and declassification of
national security information through the issuance of Reference (d) and for the designation and
protection of CUI through the issuance of Reference (e).

 b. National Security Council (NSC). In accordance with section 3021 of title 50, U.S.C.
(Reference (af)), the NSC provides overall policy guidance on information security.

 c. DNI. The DNI is head of the Intelligence Community and principal advisor to the
President and the NSC for intelligence matters related to national security pursuant to Section
1011 of Public Law 108-458 (Reference (ag)) and Section 1.3 of E.O. 12333 (Reference (ah)).
The DNI is also charged by section 1.3(b)(8) of Reference (ah) with protecting intelligence
sources, methods, and activities, and in this role, the DNI issues instructions in the form of
Intelligence Community Directives or other security policies and standards for the protection,
management and oversight of SCI and other national intelligence.

 d. ISOO. The ISOO, under the authority of the Archivist of the United States, acting in
consultation with the NSC, issues directives as necessary to implement Reference (d). The
directives establish national standards for the classification and marking of national security
information, security education and training programs, safeguarding, self-inspection programs,
and declassification. The ISOO has the responsibility to oversee agency implementation and
compliance with these directives. In this role, the ISOO requests certain information regarding
DoD activities, and such requests are coordinated through USD(I&S).

