 c. Direct the head of each activity within the DoD Component that creates, handles, or stores
classified information to appoint, in writing, an official to serve as security manager for the
activity, to properly manage and oversee the activity’s information security program. Persons

appointed to these positions shall be provided training as Enclosure 5 of Volume 3 of this
Manual requires.

 d. Establish and maintain an ongoing self-inspection and oversight program to evaluate and
assess the effectiveness and efficiency of the DoD Component’s implementation of that portion
of the information security program pertaining to classified information.

 (1) Evaluation criteria shall consider, at a minimum, original and derivative
classification, declassification, safeguarding, security violations, education and training, and
management and oversight.

 (2) The program shall include regular review and assessment of representative samples
of the DoD Component’s classified products. Appropriate officials shall be authorized to correct
misclassification of information, except for information covered by paragraph 17.b. or section 18
of Enclosure 4 of this Volume.

 (3) Self-inspections shall be conducted at least annually with the frequency established
based on program needs and classification activity. DoD Component activities that originate
significant amounts of classified information should be inspected at least annually. Annual
reports on the Component’s self-inspection program shall be submitted as required by ISOO
and/or USD(I&S). The report shall include:

 (a) A description of the agency’s self-inspection program, to include activities
assessed, program areas covered, and methodology utilized.

 (b) A summary of the findings in the following program areas: original classification,
derivative classification, declassification, safeguarding, security violations, security education
and training, and management and oversight.

 (c) Specific information on the findings of the annual review of agency original and
derivative classification actions to include the volume of classified materials reviewed and the
number and type of discrepancies that were identified.

 (d) Actions taken or planned to correct identified deficiencies or misclassification
actions, and to deter their recurrence.

 (e) Best practices identified. The DoD Inspector General Report DODIG-2013-142
(Reference (r)) identifies examples of DoD Component best practices, including the following:

