 a. Activity security management shall ensure that contractors who are involved in security
administration and support duties are clearly identified in their capacities, roles, and functions, to
ensure there is no possible confusion regarding which security personnel may exercise inherently
governmental authorities and which may not.

 b. Inherently governmental activities and functions include those that require either the
exercise of substantial discretion in applying U.S. Government authority, or value judgments
when making decisions for the U.S. Government. Inherently governmental security functions
include, but are not limited to:

 (1) Approving and issuing security policies and procedures.

 (2) Making original classification decisions, or rendering classification determinations
regarding classified information that is improperly or incompletely marked. (Correcting
improper markings when the appropriate classification is not in question is not considered
rendering a classification determination.)

 (3) Deciding to downgrade or declassify information. (Adhering to security markings on
information or to guidance stated in an appropriate security classification or declassification
guide is not considered a downgrading or declassification decision.)

 (4) Deciding challenges to classification and any appeals.

 (5) Making foreign disclosure decisions pursuant to Reference (y).

 (6) Making public release decisions pursuant to Reference (v).

 (7) Committing to expenditure of U.S. Government funds pursuant to References ((ao)
and (ap)).

 (8) Conducting investigations of, or determining fault in, security incidents involving
U.S. Government or other contractor personnel. (Contractors may conduct preliminary inquiries
to determine if a security incident is a violation or an infraction.)

 (9) Giving final approval or executing documents for filing in litigation if documents
assert an official position of the Department of Defense, any DoD Component, or any other
Federal agency.

8. USE OF FOREIGN NATIONALS IN SECURITY ADMINISTRATION. Foreign nationals
may not engage in the following DoD security administrative activities:

 a. Approving and issuing security policies and procedures.

 b. Making original classification decisions, or rendering classification determinations
regarding classified information that is improperly or incompletely marked. Correcting improper
markings when the appropriate classification is not in question is not considered rendering a
classification determination.

