10. CLASSIFICATION POLICY. Information shall be classified only when necessary in the
interests of national security and shall be declassified as soon as is consistent with the
requirements of national security.

11. RECLASSIFICATION. After information has been declassified and released to the public
under proper authority, it may be reclassified only in accordance with paragraph 17.b. of
Enclosure 4.

12. ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED INFORMATION

 a. Requirements for Access. Persons shall be allowed access to classified information only
if they:

 (1) Possess a valid and appropriate security clearance in accordance with Reference (s).
Reference (s) contains detailed guidance on personnel security investigation, adjudication, and
clearance.

 (2) Have executed an appropriate non-disclosure agreement.

 (3) Have a valid need to know the information in order to perform a lawful and
authorized governmental function.

 b. Nondisclosure Agreements

 (1) Before being granted access to Confidential, Secret, or Top Secret information,
employees shall sign SF 312, “Classified Information Nondisclosure Agreement,” or other non-
disclosure agreement approved by the DNI. SF 312 (or its predecessor, SF 189), or a legally
enforceable facsimile retained in lieu of the original, shall be maintained for 50 years from the
date of signature. Electronic signatures shall not be used to execute the SF 312.

 (2) Before being granted access to SCI information, individuals adjudicated and
approved for access shall sign a DNI-authorized SCI nondisclosure agreement. Consistent with
the provisions of DoDD 5210.48 (Reference (ar)) and all applicable laws, that agreement shall
include, as an addendum, the individual’s written certification that they may be asked to undergo
a polygraph examination in connection with any investigation of an unauthorized disclosure of
SCI information to which they have had access.

 (3) Before being granted access to SAP information, individuals adjudicated and
approved for access shall additionally sign a DoD-approved program indoctrination agreement(s)
for that information as required by Reference (q). Before gaining access and during a period of
access to DoD SAPs, all personnel shall consent to, and be subject to, a random CI-scope polygraph
examination as required by Reference (q).

