 (1) Specific Information and Specific Records. The senior agency official of a Military
Department or the USD(I&S) acting as the DoD senior agency official, as appropriate, requests
exemptions for specific information and specific records from automatic declassification. OCAs,
except those in a Military Department, shall request exemptions for specific information and
specific records through their DoD Component Head to USD(I&S). USD(I&S) shall notify the
Director of ISOO, serving as Executive Secretary of the ISCAP, of any information or records
that the Component proposes to exempt from automatic declassification. OCAs within a
Military Department shall request exemptions through their Department’s senior agency official,
who shall notify the Director of ISOO and provide USD(I&S) an information copy for oversight
purposes.

 (2) File Series. For file series exemptions, the Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of a
Military Department, as appropriate, must request the exemption. In either case, the request is
forwarded to the Director of ISOO, serving as Executive Secretary of the ISCAP. OCAs, except
those within a Military Department, shall submit requests for file series exemption through their
DoD Component Head to USD(I&S). USD(I&S) will forward the request to the Secretary of
Defense for decision and ISCAP notification. OCAs within the Military Departments shall
submit requests for exemption to the Secretary of the Military Department, who shall notify the
ISCAP. Military Departments shall provide USD(I&S) an information copy of such
notifications for oversight purposes.

 f. ISCAP Authority. The ISCAP may direct the Department of Defense not to exempt the
specific information, specific records, or file series, or to declassify it at an earlier date than

recommended. The Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of a Military Department, as
appropriate, may appeal such a decision to the President through the National Security Advisor.
The information will remain classified while such an appeal is pending. OCAs shall notify the
appropriate DoD authority if an appeal is necessary and provide justification and rationale to
counter the ISCAP decision. Military Departments shall provide USD(I&S) an information copy
of any appeal for oversight purposes.

