human intelligence source. People who provide intelligence directly; individuals associated with
organizations (such as foreign government entities and intelligence services) who willingly share
intelligence information with the United States; individuals and organizations who facilitate the
placement or service of technical collection means that could not succeed without their support;
and foreign citizens who are identified as of an intelligence interest to the United States with a
reasonable expectation that they will provide information or services in the future. Information
that may reveal the identities of people upon whom the United States relies for information,
access to information, or cooperation leading to obtaining information is considered to
potentially reveal human intelligence sources.

information. Any knowledge that can be communicated or documentary material, regardless of
its physical form or characteristics, that is owned by, produced by or for, or is under the control
of the U.S. Government.

information security. The system of policies, procedures, and requirements established in
accordance with Reference (d) to protect information that, if subjected to unauthorized
disclosure, could reasonably be expected to cause damage to national security. The term also
applies to policies, procedures, and requirements established to protect unclassified information
that may be withheld from release to the public pursuant to Executive order, statute, or
regulation.

integral file block. A distinct component of a file series that should be maintained as a separate
unit to ensure the integrity of the records. An integral file block may consist of a set of records
covering either a specific topic or a range of time, such as a Presidential administration or a
5-year retirement schedule within a specific file series that is retired from active use as a
group. For purposes of automatic declassification, integral file blocks shall contain only records
dated within 10 years of the oldest record in the file block.

integrity. The state that exists when information is unchanged from its source and has not been
accidentally or intentionally modified, altered, or destroyed.

Intelligence Community. An element or agency of the U.S. Government identified in or
designated pursuant to section 3(4) of the National Security Act of 1947, as amended, or
section 3.5(h) of Reference (ah).

