 g. Develop and oversee policy, strategy, plans, programs, required capabilities and resources
for DoD intelligence, CI, security, sensitive activities, and other intelligence and security related
matters, as necessary to counter insider threats. Serves as the senior official and principal advisor to
the Secretary of Defense on the DoD Insider Threat program in accordance with DoDD 5205.16
(Reference (n)), and in this capacity, will:

 (1) Provide oversight of the DoD Insider Threat Program.

 (2) Assign responsibilities to the DoD Components to implement the DoD Insider Threat
Program.

 (3) Recommend improvements to the Secretary of Defense on DoD insider threat
activities.

 h. In coordination with the DoD Chief Information Officer (DoD CIO), the Chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff, the DoD Component heads, and the Director of National Intelligence,
develop and integrate traditional and cyber security risk-based strategies and phased approaches
to measurably increase DoD’s security posture against insider threats in accordance with the
joint USD(I&S), DoD CIO, and Commander, United States Strategic Command Memorandum
(Reference (o)).

2. UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR POLICY (USD(P)). The USD(P) shall:

 a. Serve as the senior official responsible for administering that portion of the DoD
Information Security Program pertaining to the National Classified Military Information
Disclosure Policy, foreign government (including North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO))
information, and security arrangements for international programs in accordance with
DoDD 5111.1 (Reference (p)) and Reference (a).

 b. Notify the Director, ISOO, of approval of waivers involving Reference (d) and its
implementing directive, Reference (f).

3. DoD CIO. The DoD CIO shall:

 a. Establish procedures, consistent with References (d) and (f) and this Manual, to ensure
that information systems, including networks and telecommunications systems, that process,
disseminate, or store classified information:

 (1) Prevent access by unauthorized persons.

 (2) Assure the integrity of the information.

 (3) Use, to the maximum extent practicable, common information technology (IT)
standards, protocols, and interfaces, and standardized electronic formats to maximize availability
and authorized access.

 b. Direct the use of technical means to prevent unauthorized copying of classified data and
for anomaly detection to recognize unusual patterns of accessing, handling, downloading, and
removal of digital classified information.

