 a. Information that is a product of contractor or individual independent research and
development (IR&D) or bid and proposal (B&P) efforts, as defined by DoDI 3204.01 (Reference
(bc)), conducted without prior or current access to classified information associated with the
specific information in question, may not be classified unless:

 (1) The U.S. Government first acquires a proprietary interest in the information; or,

 (2) The contractor or individual conducting the IR&D or B&P requests that the U.S.
Government contracting activity place the information under the control of the security
classification system without relinquishing ownership of the information.

 b. The contractor or individual conducting such an IR&D or B&P effort and believing that
the information generated may require protection in the interest of national security shall
safeguard the information and submit it to an appropriate U.S. Government activity for a
classification determination.

 (1) The U.S. Government activity receiving the request shall issue security classification
guidance, as appropriate, if the information is to be classified. If the information is not under the
activity’s classification authority, the activity shall refer the matter to the appropriate
classification authority and inform the individual or contractor of the referral. The information
shall be safeguarded until the matter is resolved.

 (2) The U.S. Government activity authorizing classification for the information shall
verify whether the contractor or individual is cleared and has been authorized to store classified
information. If not, the U.S. Government activity authorizing classification shall advise whether
security clearance action should be initiated.

 (3) If the contractor or individual refuses to be processed for the appropriate security
clearance and the U.S. Government does not acquire a proprietary interest in the information, the
information may not be classified.

 (4) If the information is not classified, consideration may be given to the need for other
controls applicable to unclassified information (e.g., export controls). (See Volume 4 of this
Manual for guidance on CUI.)

