 (1) The report, covering the previous fiscal year, shall be submitted on Standard Form
(SF) 311, “Agency Information Security Program Data,” to reach the Director of Security,

OUSD(I&S), prior to October 31 of each year. The Military Departments shall submit their
reports directly to ISOO, with a copy furnished to OUSD(I&S). OUSD(I&S) shall compile the
reports, excluding those of the Military Departments, and provide a consolidated report to ISOO.

 (2) The SF 311 shall be completed according to the instructions accompanying the form
and those provided by ISOO and OUSD(I&S).

 n. Cooperate and coordinate with the Component senior intelligence official as appropriate
to achieve a harmonized and cohesive information security program within the DoD Component.

7. HEADS OF DoD ACTIVITIES. The heads of DoD activities shall:

 a. Be responsible for overall management, functioning and effectiveness of the activity’s
information security program.

 b. Designate, in writing, an activity security manager, who shall be given the necessary
authority to ensure personnel adhere to program requirements. Provide the designated activity
security manager direct access to activity leadership and ensure he or she is organizationally
aligned to ensure prompt and appropriate attention to program requirements.

 (1) The activity security manager may be assigned full-time, part-time, or as a collateral
duty, provided that the responsibilities delineated in section 9 of this enclosure can be adequately
and professionally executed and implemented.

 (2) The activity security manager shall:

 (a) Be a military officer, senior non-commissioned officer, or a civilian employee
with sufficient authority, staff, and other resources necessary to manage the program for the
activity.

 1. For activities with more than 100 personnel assigned, a senior non-
commissioned officer designated as the activity security manager shall be E-7 or above; a
civilian employee so designated shall be GS-11 or above (or pay band equivalent).

 2. For activities with less than 100 personnel assigned, a senior non-
commissioned officer designated as the activity security manager shall be E-6 or above; a
civilian employee so designated shall be GS-7 or above (or pay band equivalent).

 (b) Be a U.S. citizen.

 (c) Have been the subject of a favorably adjudicated, current background
investigation appropriate for the highest level of classification of information handled by
personnel within the activity in accordance with requirements of DoD 5200.2-R (Reference (s)).

