 a. When incorporating, paraphrasing, restating, or generating classified information in a new
form or document (i.e., derivatively classifying information), it must be identified as classified
information by marking or similar means. Derivative classification includes classification of
information based on classification guidance in a security classification guide or other source
material, but does not include photocopying or otherwise mechanically or electronically
reproducing classified material.

 b. Within the DoD all cleared personnel, who generate or create material that is to be
derivatively classified, shall ensure that the derivative classification is accomplished in
accordance with this enclosure. No specific, individual delegation of authority is required. DoD
officials who sign or approve derivatively classified documents have principal responsibility for
the quality of the derivative classification.

 c. All persons performing derivative classification shall receive training, as specified in
Enclosure 5 of Volume 3 of this Manual, on proper procedures for making classification
determinations and properly marking derivatively classified documents.

3. RESPONSIBILITIES OF DERIVATIVE CLASSIFIERS. Derivative classifiers shall:

 a. Observe and respect the classification determinations made by OCAs. If derivative
classifiers believe information to be improperly classified, they shall take the actions required by
section 22 of this enclosure.

 b. Identify themselves and the classified information by marking it in accordance with
Volume 2 of this Manual.

 c. Use only authorized sources for classification guidance (e.g., security classification
guides, memorandums, DoD publications, and other forms of classification guidance issued by

the OCA) and markings on source documents from which the information is extracted for
guidance on classification of the information in question. The use of memory alone or “general
rules” about the classification of broad classes of information is prohibited.

 d. Use caution when paraphrasing or restating information extracted from a classified source
document. Paraphrasing or restating information may change the need for or level of
classification.

