SCI. Classified information concerning or derived from intelligence sources, methods, or
analytical processes that is required to be handled within formal access control systems
established by the Director of National Intelligence.

security classification guide. A documentary form of classification guidance issued by an OCA
that identifies the elements of information regarding a specific subject that must be classified and
establishes the level and duration of classification for each such element.

security clearance. A determination that a person is eligible in accordance with the standards of
Reference (s) for access to classified information.

self-inspection. The internal review and evaluation of individual DoD Component activities and
the DoD Component as a whole with respect to the implementation of the information security
program established in accordance with References (b), (d) and (f), and this Manual.

senior agency official. An official appointed by the head of a DoD Component to be responsible
for direction, administration, and oversight of the Component’s information security program, to
include classification, declassification, safeguarding, and security education and training
programs, and for the efficient and effective implementation of References (b), (d), (e), and (f)
and the guidance in this Manual. Where used in reference to authorities pursuant to
section 5.4(d) of Reference (d), this term applies only to the senior agency officials of the
Military Departments and of the Department of Defense.

senior intelligence official. The highest ranking military or civilian charged with direct foreign
intelligence missions, functions, or responsibilities with a department, agency, component, or
element of an Intelligence Community organization. Responsible for direction, administration,
and oversight of the organization’s SCI program, to include classification, declassification,
safeguarding, and security education and training programs for the effective implementation of
References (b), (j), and (ad) and the guidance in this Manual.

SSO. Individual appointed, in accordance with References (j) and (ad), by the senior intelligence
official to be responsible for the day-to-day security management, operation, implementation,
use, and dissemination of SCI within an activity.

tab. A narrow paper sleeve placed around a document or group of documents in such a way that
it is readily visible.

telecommunications. The preparation, transmission, or communication of information by
electronic means.

