RD. All data concerning design, manufacture, or utilization of atomic weapons; the production
of special nuclear material; or the use of special nuclear material in the production of energy, but
not data declassified or removed from the RD category pursuant to section 2162 of The Atomic
Energy Act of 1954, as amended.

records. The records of an agency and Presidential papers or Presidential records, as those terms
are defined in Reference (av), including those created or maintained by a U.S. Government
contractor, licensee, certificate holder, or grantee that are subject to the sponsoring agency’s
control in accordance with the terms of the contract, license, certificate, or grant.

records having permanent historical value. Records that the Archivist of the United States has
determined should be maintained permanently in accordance with Reference (av).

records management. The planning, controlling, directing, organizing, training, promoting, and
other managerial activities involved with respect to records creation, records maintenance and
use, and records disposition in order to achieve adequate and proper documentation of the
policies and transactions of the Federal Government and effective and economical management
of agency operations. Within the Department of Defense, records management is implemented
by Reference (aw).

redaction. For purposes of declassification, the removal of exempted information from copies of
a document.

released to the public. Made available to the general public through any publicly accessible
media or method.

risk management. The process of identifying, assessing, and controlling risks and making
decisions that balance risk with cost and benefits.

safeguarding. Measures and controls that are prescribed to protect classified information.

SAP. A program established for a specific class of classified information that imposes
safeguarding and access requirements that exceed those normally required for information at the
same classification level. In the Department of Defense, any DoD program or activity (as
authorized in Reference (d)), employing enhanced security measures (e.g., safeguarding, access
requirements), exceeding those normally required for collateral information at the same level of
classification, shall be established, approved, and managed as a DoD SAP in accordance with
Reference (q).

scheduled records. All records that fall under a NARA-approved records control schedule.

