 (c) DoD Component Referrals to Other DoD Components. Records containing
information originated by another DoD Component or the disclosure of which would affect the
interests or activities of another DoD Component with respect to the classified information shall
be referred and processed through the NDC, as appropriate. The DoD Component shall be
notified of these types of referrals.

 (d) Referral Review Period. If any disagreement arises between a DoD Component
and the NDC regarding the referral review period, the DoD Component shall notify ISOO and
USD(I&S) of the disagreement. In such cases, the Director of ISOO shall determine the
appropriate review period for referred records. Otherwise, the DoD Component shall provide a
final determination on referrals received through the NDC within 1 year of referral or the
information shall be automatically declassified. If any disagreement arises among the DoD
Components regarding the referral review period, the USD(I&S) shall determine the appropriate
period of review for the referred records.

 h. Automatic Declassification of Backlogged Records at NARA. In accordance with
Presidential Memorandum (Reference (bh)) and under NDC direction:

 (1) Referrals and quality assurance problems within the backlog of more than 400
million pages of accessioned Federal records previously subject to automatic declassification
shall be addressed in a manner that will permit public access to all declassified records from this
backlog no later than December 31, 2013.

 (2) DoD Components shall review all referrals to DoD in the backlogged records and
identify potentially exemptible information for further referral to other agencies. For DoD, the
backlog includes all records reviewed for automatic declassification from April 1995 to
December 2009 that have been accessioned, but not processed, by NARA.

 i. Declassification Review Technique. DoD Components may use a pass/fail or a redaction
declassification technique when doing automatic declassification reviews.

13. EXEMPTIONS FROM AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATION. Reference (d) sets out three
types of exemptions, specific criteria and duration, and the requirements for requesting an
exemption from automatic declassification. Information not exempted from automatic
declassification shall be automatically declassified no later than December 31 of the year that is
25 years from the date of origin. Information exempted from automatic declassification remains
subject to the mandatory and systematic declassification review provisions of this Volume.

 a. Exemption Types

