 e. Take appropriate and reasonable steps, including consulting a security classification guide
or requesting assistance from the appropriate OCA, to resolve doubts or apparent conflicts about
the classification, level of classification, and duration of classification. In cases of apparent
conflict between a security classification guide and a classified source document regarding a
discrete item of information, the instructions in the security classification guide shall take
precedence. Where required markings are missing or omitted from source documents, consult
the OCA, appropriate security classification guide, or other classification guidance for
application of the omitted markings.

4. PROCEDURES FOR DERIVATIVE CLASSIFICATION

 a. Derivative classifiers shall carefully analyze the material they are classifying to determine
what information it contains or reveals and shall evaluate that information against the
instructions provided by the classification guidance or the markings on source documents.

 b. Drafters of derivatively classified documents shall portion-mark their drafts and keep
records of the sources they use, to facilitate derivative classification of the finished product.

 c. When material is derivatively classified based on “multiple sources” (i.e., more than one
security classification guide, classified source document, or combination thereof), the derivative
classifier shall compile a list of the sources used. This list shall be included in or attached to the
document.

 d. Duration of classification for derivatively classified documents shall be determined in
accordance with section 13 of this enclosure and applied in accordance with Volume 2 of this
Manual. The instructions shall not be automatically copied from source documents without
consideration of adjustments that may be required (e.g., due to use of multiple sources, changes
in policy, changes in classification guidance).

 e. If extracting information from a document or section of a document classified by
compilation, the derivative classifier shall consult the explanation on the source document to
determine the appropriate classification. If that does not provide sufficient guidance, the
derivative classifier shall contact the originator of the source document for assistance.

 f. Infrequently, different sources of classification guidance may specify different
classification for the same information. When such inconsistencies are encountered, the
derivative classifier must contact the applicable OCA(s) for resolution of the inconsistency.

