activity security manager. The individual specifically designated in writing and responsible for
the activity’s information security program, which ensures that classified information (except
SCI which is the responsibility of the SSO appointed by the senior intelligence official) and CUI
are properly handled during their entire life cycle. This includes ensuring information is
appropriately identified, marked, stored, disseminated, disposed of, and accounted for, as well as
providing guidance on the handling of security incidents to minimize adverse effects and ensure
that appropriate corrective action is taken. The security manager may be assigned
responsibilities in other security disciplines such as personnel and physical security, etc. The
activity security manager implements the information security program guidance established by
this Manual and the Component senior agency official.

agency. Any Executive agency as defined in section 105 of Reference (ay); any Military
Department as defined in section 102 of Reference (bd); and any other entity within the
Executive Branch that comes into the possession of classified information.

authorized person. A person who has a favorable determination of eligibility for access to
classified information, has signed an SF 312 nondisclosure agreement, and has a need to know
for the specific classified information in the performance of official duties.

automatic declassification. The declassification of information based solely upon:

 The occurrence of a specific date or event as determined by the OCA; or

 The expiration of a maximum time frame for duration of classification established pursuant
to Reference (d).

classification. The act or process by which information is determined to be classified
information.

classification guidance. Any instruction or source that prescribes the classification of specific
information.

classification guide. A documentary form of classification guidance issued by an OCA that
identifies, for a specific subject, the elements of information that must be classified and
establishes the level and duration of classification for each such element.

classified national security information. Information that has been determined pursuant to
Reference (d), or any predecessor order, to require protection against unauthorized disclosure
and is marked to indicate its classified status when in documentary form.

