 (2) When information cannot be declassified in its entirety, DoD Components shall make
reasonable efforts to release, consistent with other applicable law and the requirements of
paragraph 1.e. of this enclosure, those declassified portions of the requested information that
constitute a coherent segment. Where information is withheld the specific reason, as specified
by section 1.4 of Reference (d) and identified in paragraph 1.b of Enclosure 4 of this Volume,
must be included for each redaction. Information that is redacted due to a statutory authority
must be clearly marked with the specific authority that authorizes the redaction.

 e. The mandatory declassification review process shall provide for administrative appeal in
cases where the review results in the information remaining classified. The requester shall be
notified of the results of the review and of the right to appeal, within 60 days of receipt, the
denial of declassification. If the requester files an appeal, the DoD Component appellate

authority shall make a determination within 60 working days following receipt. If additional
time is required to make a determination, the appellate authority shall notify the requestor of the
additional time needed and provide the reason for the extension. If the appeal is denied, the
requester shall be notified of the right to appeal the denial to the ISCAP.

 f. Requesters may be charged fees for processing their requests in accordance with the
schedule of fees in Volume 11 A of DoD 7000.14-R (Reference (bj)).

17. SYSTEMATIC REVIEW FOR DECLASSIFICATION. Heads of the DoD Components
that have classified information in accordance with Reference (d) or previous Executive orders
shall establish systematic review programs to review for declassification information in the
custody of the DoD Component. These programs shall review for declassification information
that is contained in permanently valuable historical records that have been exempted from
automatic declassification and shall determine if the information may be further exempt from
automatic declassification in accordance with the provisions of this enclosure. These efforts
shall be prioritized in accordance with the priorities established by the NDC.

