distribution statement. A statement used on a technical document to denote the extent of its
availability for secondary distribution, release, and disclosure without additional approvals or
authorizations. A distribution statement is distinct from and in addition to a security
classification marking and any dissemination control markings included in the banner line. A
distribution statement is also required on security classification guides submitted to the Defense
Technical Information Center.

document. Any recorded information, regardless of the nature of the medium or the method or
circumstances of recording. This includes any physical medium in or on which information is
recorded or stored, to include written or printed matter, audiovisual materials, and
electromagnetic storage media.

downgrading. A determination by a declassification authority that information classified and
safeguarded at a specified level shall be classified and safeguarded at a lower level.

element of the Intelligence Community. See Intelligence Community.

equity. For purposes of classification management, information originally classified by or under
the control of an agency.

exception. An approved permanent exclusion or deviation from an information security standard
or requirement, as specified in this Volume.

exempted. Nomenclature and marking indicating information has been determined to fall within
an enumerated exemption from automatic declassification in accordance with Reference (d).

FGI

 Information provided to the U.S. Government by a foreign government or governments, an
international organization of governments, or any element thereof, with the expectation that the
information, the source of the information, or both, are to be held in confidence.

 Information produced by the U.S. Government pursuant to or as a result of a joint
arrangement with a foreign government or governments, or an international organization of
governments, or any element thereof, requiring that the information, the arrangement, or both,
are to be held in confidence.

 Information received and treated as FGI pursuant to the terms of a predecessor order to
Reference (d).

