4. DECLASSIFICATION GUIDANCE. Persons with declassification authority shall develop
and issue declassification guidance to facilitate effective review and declassification of
information classified under both current and previous classified national security information
Executive orders. The guidance may be in the form of declassification guides, sections of

security classification guides, memorandums, etc. Exemptions authorized in accordance with
section 13 of this enclosure should be cited in declassification guidance.

5. DECLASSIFICATION OF INFORMATION

 a. Holders of classified information marked with a date or event on the “declassify on” line,
shall, prior to downgrading or declassifying the information, confirm that the OCA(s) for the
information has not extended the classification period.

 b. Holders of classified information may confirm the classification period (i.e., date or event
for declassification) by reference to the applicable security classification or declassification
guide or other appropriate guidance issued by the OCA(s), or by consultation with the OCA(s).
Classified information shall continue to be safeguarded as required for the indicated
classification level until the holder has confirmed that the OCA(s) has not extended the
classification period.

 c. If the holder of a document has reason to believe it should not be declassified as specified,
the originator shall be notified through appropriate administrative channels. The document or
material shall continue to be protected at the originally assigned classification until the issue is
resolved.

 d. Declassification markings are used to clearly convey the declassified status of the
information and who authorized the declassification. All declassified information in agency
records not held by NARA shall have the declassification markings required by Enclosure 3 of
Volume 2 of this Manual applied.

6. CANCELING OR CHANGING CLASSIFICATION MARKINGS. Declassification
authority is not required for simply canceling or changing classification markings in accordance
with guidance from an OCA or declassification authority. Sections 18 and 19 of this enclosure
provide guidance on downgrading and upgrading classified information.

7. SPECIAL PROCEDURES FOR CRYPTOLOGIC INFORMATION. Only NSA/CSS may
declassify cryptologic information. Therefore, such information uncovered in systematic or
mandatory review of U.S. Government records for declassification, including such information
incorporated into other documents, must be referred to the NSA/CSS for declassification
determination.

