 g. Establish and maintain a security education and training program as required by
Enclosure 5 of Volume 3 of this Manual, ensure that DoD Component personnel receive security
education and training as appropriate to their functions, and grant, when appropriate, waivers to
the original and derivative classification training requirements of section 7 of Enclosure 5 of
Volume 3.

 h. Ensure that the performance contract or other system used to rate the performance of
civilian and military personnel includes the designation and management of classified
information, to include Restricted Data and Formerly Restricted Data information when
appropriate, as a critical element or item to be evaluated in the rating of:

 (1) OCAs.

 (2) Security managers and security specialists.

 (3) Personnel who derivatively classify information on a routine basis.

 (4) Information system security personnel if their duties involve access to classified
information and information system personnel (e.g., system administrators) with privileged
access to classified system or network resources.

 (5) All other personnel whose duties include significant involvement with the creation or
handling of classified information.

 i. Account for the costs associated with implementing this Manual within the DoD
Component and report those costs as required.

 j. Ensure prompt and appropriate response to any request, appeal, challenge, complaint, or
suggestion arising out of implementation of this Manual within the DoD Component.

 k. Establish procedures for receipt of information, allegations, or complaints regarding over-
classification or incorrect classification within the DoD Component and, as needed, provide
guidance to personnel on proper classification.

 l. Approve, when appropriate, the use of alternative compensatory control measures
(ACCM) for classified information over which the senior agency official has cognizance and
provide written notification within 30 days to the Director of Security, Office of the Under
Secretary of Defense for Intelligence and Security (OUSD(I&S)), or the Director, International
Security Programs, Defense Technology Security Administration, Office of the USD(P)
(OUSD(P)), as appropriate, when establishing or terminating an ACCM.

 m. Submit an annual report addressing how the DoD Component implemented that portion
of the information security program dealing with classified information.

