 (2) Ensuring adequate resources for a robust information security program are identified
and programmed.

 (3) Establishing and maintaining a security education program.

 (4) Establishing and maintaining an ongoing self-inspection and program oversight
function.

 (5) Directing the head of each activity within the DoD Component that creates, handles,
or stores classified information to appoint an official to serve as security manager for the activity,
to properly manage and oversee the activity’s information security program.

 c. Activity Security Management. The activity security manager manages and implements
the activity’s information security program and ensures its visibility and effectiveness on behalf
of the activity head, who retains the responsibility for overall management and functioning of the
program. The activity security managers must have sufficient delegated authority to ensure that
personnel adhere to program requirements, and their position within the organizational hierarchy
must ensure their credibility and enable them to raise security issues directly to their respective
activity head.

 (1) Some tasks may be assigned to a number of activity personnel and may even be
assigned to persons senior to the security manager. Nevertheless, the security manager shall
remain cognizant of all activity information, personnel, information systems, and physical and
industrial security functions, and shall ensure that the information security program is
coordinated and inclusive of all requirements in this Manual.

 (2) The activity security manager responsibilities include:

 (a) Serving as the principal advisor and representative to the activity head in all
matters pertaining to this Manual.

 (b) Developing a written activity security instruction.

 (c) Ensuring that personnel in the activity who perform security duties are trained.

 (d) Formulating, coordinating, and conducting the activity security education
program.

 d. TSCO. TSCOs are not required, but the activity head may elect to appoint a TSCO to
facilitate appropriate control of Top Secret material when there is a need (e.g., accountability of
Sigma 14 material as required in Volume 2 of this Manual). The TSCO maintains, for paper and
other physical media (e.g., disk drives and removable computer media), a system of
accountability (e.g., a registry) for activity Top Secret information and conducts inventories of
Top Secret information.

