 h. Coordinate the preparation, dissemination, and maintenance of security classification
guides under the activity’s cognizance as required by Reference (bm).

 i. Maintain liaison with the activity public affairs officer or information security officer, as
appropriate, and the operations security (OPSEC) officer to ensure that information, including
press releases and photos, proposed or intended for public release, including via website posting,
is subject to a security review in accordance with DoDD 5230.09 (Reference (v)), DoDI 5230.29
(Reference (w)), and DoDI 8550.01 (Reference (x)).

 j. Coordinate with other activity officials regarding security measures for the classification,
safeguarding, transmission, declassification, and destruction of classified information.

 (1) Coordinate as required with the foreign disclosure officer on all matters governing
the disclosure of classified information to foreign governments and international organizations in
accordance with DoDD 5230.11 (Reference (y)).

 (2) Ensure implementation of and compliance with the requirements of this Manual for
all uses of IT. Coordinate with information systems security personnel (e.g., designated approval
authorities (DAAs), information assurance managers (IAMs), information system security
managers) as required for effective management, use, and oversight of classified information in
electronic form.

 k. Develop security measures and procedures, consistent with DoDD 5230.20
(Reference (z)), DoDI 5200.08 (Reference (aa)) and other applicable policies, regarding visitors
who require access to classified information and facilities containing same.

 l. Ensure compliance with the requirements of this Manual when access to classified
information is provided to industry at activity facilities and locations in connection with a
classified contract. If the classified information is provided to industry at the contractor’s
facility, ensure compliance with the provisions of DoDI 5220.22 (Reference (ab)).

 m. Ensure that access to classified information is limited to appropriately cleared personnel
with a need to know as required by section 4.1 of Reference (d) and section 3.1 of E.O. 12968
(Reference (ac)).

 n. Maintain liaison with the special security officer (SSO), as appropriate, on issues of
common concern.

9. TSCO. The TSCO, when designated in accordance with paragraph 8.d. of this enclosure,
shall:

