 (a) RD and CNWDI shall be e-mailed only after confirmation that the recipient has a
final security clearance at the appropriate level, has a need to know the information, and, for
CNWDI, has received the additional security briefing required by Reference (as).

 (b) All RD and CNWDI files stored on shared or personal local electronic storage
devices shall be password-protected.

 (c) IT systems and networks must be certified and accredited for RD, FRD, and/or
CNWDI prior to transmission, processing, or storage of such data. Such certification must verify
that access to RD, FRD, and CNWDI information, including through websites, is limited to
authorized recipients by, at a minimum, a properly administered and protected individual
identifier and password consistent with requirements of Reference (ae).

 (d) System log-ons and properly configured screen savers are sufficient protection
for e-mail files.

 (e) In accordance with Reference (as), Sigma 14, 15, and 20 information shall not be
processed on SIPRNET.

 b. Protection of SCI. SCI information shall be controlled and protected in accordance with
applicable national policy, policies established by the DNI, and implementing DoD issuances.
Security classification and declassification policies of this Manual apply to SCI information in
the same manner as other classified information.

 c. Protection of COMSEC Information. COMSEC information shall be controlled and
protected in accordance with applicable national policy and DoD issuances. Security
classification and declassification policies of this Manual apply to COMSEC information in the
same manner as other classified information, except ONLY NSA/CSS is authorized to declassify
COMSEC information.

 d. Protection of SAP Information. SAPs shall be created, continued, managed, and
discontinued in accordance with Reference (q) and DoDI 5205.11 (Reference (at)). Information
covered by SAPs established in accordance with References (q) and (at) shall be classified,
declassified, controlled, and protected as this Manual, References (q) and (at), and instructions
issued by officials charged with management of those programs require. The provisions of this
Manual pertaining to classification, declassification, and marking apply, without exception, to
SAP information unless waivers of specific requirements are obtained in accordance with
section 16 of this enclosure.

