international program. Any program, project, contract, operation, exercise, training, experiment,
or other initiative that involves a DoD Component or a DoD contractor and a foreign

government, international organization, or corporation that is located and incorporated to do
business in a foreign country.

material. Any product or substance on or in which information is embodied.

national security. The national defense or foreign relations of the United States. National
security includes defense against transnational terrorism.

national security system. Defined in section 3542(b)(2) of Reference (av).

need to know. A determination that a prospective recipient requires access to specific classified
information in order to perform or assist in a lawful and authorized governmental function.

network. A system of two or more computers that can exchange data or information.

newly discovered records. Records that were inadvertently not reviewed prior to the effective
date of automatic declassification because the Agency declassification authority was unaware of
their existence.

OCA. An individual authorized in writing, either by the President, the Vice President, or by
agency heads or other officials designated by the President, to originally classify information
(i.e., to classify information in the first instance).

original classification. An initial determination that information requires, in the interests of
national security, protection against unauthorized disclosure.

pass/fail. A declassification technique that regards information at the full document level. Any
exemptible portion of a document may result in exemption (failure) of the entire document.
Documents that contain no exemptible information are passed and therefore declassified.
Documents that contain exemptible information are failed and therefore exempt from automatic
declassification.

permanent records. Any Federal record that has been determined by NARA to have sufficient
value to warrant its preservation in the National Archives of the United States. Permanent
records include all records accessioned by NARA into the National Archives of the United States
and later increments of the same records, and those for which the disposition is permanent on
SF 115, “Request for Records Disposition Authority,” approved by NARA on or after May 14,
1973.

permanently valuable records. See “records having permanent historical value.”

