 b. Reclassification of Information Declassified and Released to the Public Under Proper
Authority

 (1) Information that has been declassified and released to the public under proper
authority may be reclassified only when:

 (a) The information may be reasonably recoverable without bringing undue attention
to the information, which means that:

 1. Most individual recipients or holders are known and can be contacted and all
forms of the information to be reclassified can be retrieved from them.

 2. If the information has been made available to the public via means such as
U.S. Government archives or reading rooms, it can be or has been withdrawn from public access
without significant media or public attention or notice.

 (b) The Secretary of Defense approves the reclassification based on a document-by-
document determination and recommendation by the Head of the originating DoD Component,
other than the Secretary of a Military Department, when that reclassification of the information is
required to prevent significant and demonstrable damage to the national security.
Reclassification and release of information under proper authority means the DoD Component
with jurisdiction over the information authorized declassification and release of the information.
The Secretaries of a Military Department shall approve the reclassification of information under
their jurisdiction on the same basis and shall notify the USD(I&S) of the action. The Military
Departments shall provide implementing guidance to their subordinate activities for submitting such
requests.

 (2) DoD Component Heads other than the Secretaries of the Military Departments shall
submit recommendations for reclassification of information under their jurisdiction to the
Secretary of Defense through the USD(I&S). Recommendations for reclassification must
include, on a document-by-document basis:

 (a) A description of the information.

 (b) All information necessary for the original classification decision in accordance
with Reference (bm), including classification level of the information and declassification
instructions to be applied.

 (c) When and how it was released to the public.

 (d) An explanation as to why it should be reclassified. Include the applicable reason
in accordance with Reference (d) and describe what damage could occur to national security.
Also describe what damage may have already occurred as a result of the release.

 (e) The number of recipients and/or holders and how they will be notified of the
reclassification.

 (f) How the information will be recovered.

