 (2) Newly Discovered Records. The Director, ISOO, must be consulted whenever a
DoD Component Head determines there is a need to delay automatic declassification for newly
discovered records that were inadvertently not reviewed prior to the effective date of automatic
declassification. Such consultation shall occur not later than 90 days from discovery of the
records. Heads of the Military Departments or their senior agency official will notify ISOO
directly and provide an information copy to DUSD(I&S). Other DoD Component Heads or their
senior agency official will notify ISOO through the DUSD(I&S). The notification should
identify the records and their volume, explain the circumstances leading to discovery of the
missed records, and provide the anticipated date for declassification. A DoD Component has up
to 3 years from the date of discovery to make a declassification, exemption, or referral
determination. Referral to other DoD Components or Federal entities with identified interests or
equities shall be in accordance with subparagraph 12.g.(3) and section 15 of this enclosure.

 (3) Referred Records

 (a) Referring Other Agency Information. Other than records that are properly
excluded or exempted from automatic declassification, records containing classified information
originated by another department or agency or the disclosure of which would affect the interests
or activities of other departments or agencies with respect to the classified information and that

could reasonably be expected to fall under one or more of the exemptions identified in
paragraph 13.b. of this enclosure shall be identified prior to onset of automatic declassification
for later referral to those departments or agencies. DoD Components shall identify other agency
information for referral during the initial review of Component records; referral review will take
place under the auspices of the NDC. The records shall be referred using SF 715, “U.S.
Government Declassification Review Tab.”

 (b) Referrals to the Department of Defense. Other agency records subject to
automatic declassification that contain defense information shall be reviewed by the appropriate
DoD Component upon referral. If a final determination is not provided within 1 year on a
referral made by the NDC, defense information in the referred records shall be automatically
declassified.

