6
 Chapter 22 is also known as “The Presidential Records Act of 1978.”
7
 Section 552 is also known as “The Freedom of Information Act, as amended.”
8
 Section 552a is also known as “The Privacy Act of 1974, as amended.”

 ENCLOSURE 2

 RESPONSIBILITIES

1. UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR INTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY
(USD(I&S)). The USD(I&S) shall:

 a. Serve as the DoD Senior Security Official, in accordance with Reference (a), and in that
capacity is the DoD Senior Agency Official appointed pursuant to subsection 5.4(d) of Reference
(d) to direct, administer, and oversee the DoD Information Security Program.

 b. Notify the Congress and the Director, Information Security Oversight Office (ISOO), as
appropriate, of violations involving classified information and of approval of waivers involving
Reference (d) and its implementing directive, Reference (f), as required by section 2723 of title
10, United States Code (U.S.C.) (Reference (l)) and References (d) and (f).

 c. Establish requirements for collecting and reporting data as necessary to fulfill the
requirements of References (d) and (f) and other national-level guidance.

 d. Designate a senior-level Federal employee, and an alternate, to represent the Department
of Defense on the Interagency Security Classification Appeals Panel (ISCAP) as required by
Reference (d). The individuals so designated must be full-time or permanent part-time
employees of the Department of Defense. Designate to the ISCAP Chair in writing one or more
individuals as identified by the Director, Washington Headquarters Services (WHS) to serve as a
liaison in support of the DoD representative in accordance with the ISCAP bylaws in
Reference (f).

 e. Establish policy and oversee program implementation for reporting and investigating
known or suspected incidents of unauthorized disclosure of classified information and for
reporting corrective and disciplinary action taken in accordance with DoDD 5210.50 (Reference
(m)).

 f. Serve as the principal point of contact on counterintelligence (CI) and security
investigative matters that involve the unauthorized disclosure of classified information referred
to the Department of Defense by other government agencies or that may involve other
government agencies in accordance with Reference (m).

