 (1) Documents not reviewed by December 31 of the year in which they become 25 years
old shall be automatically declassified unless the onset of automatic declassification has been
delayed in accordance with paragraph 12.g. of this section or an exemption has been approved.

 (2) Documents exempted from declassification shall be automatically declassified on
December 31 of the year in which they become 50 years old or, as appropriate, 75 years old
unless further exempted from declassification in accordance with section 13 of this enclosure.

 (3) If the document’s date of origin cannot be readily determined, the date of original
classification shall be used to determine the automatic declassification deadline.

 b. Secretary of Defense Certification. In addition to the requirement of paragraph 12.a. of
this section, DoD Components shall not automatically declassify DoD records without reviewing
them for declassification unless the Secretary of Defense has certified to Congress that such
declassification would not harm the national security pursuant to section 1041(c) of Public
Law 106-65 (Reference (bf)). If records will not be reviewed for declassification as required
prior to December 31 of the year in which they become 25 years old, the DoD Component Heads
shall notify the USD(I&S), 6 months in advance of the deadline, so the required Secretary of
Defense certification can be addressed. Notification shall include identification of the records,
the compelling reason why the records will not be reviewed by the deadline, how many records
will remain un-reviewed, where the records are located, and when the required reviews will be
completed.

 c. Public Release of Automatically Declassified Documents. Automatic declassification
does not constitute approval for public release of the information. Automatically declassified
documents shall not be released to the public until a public disclosure review has been conducted
in accordance with paragraph 1.e. of this enclosure. Declassified information may be designated
CUI in accordance with Volume 4 of this Manual if it meets the criteria for designation;
information so designated shall be marked and protected as Volume 4 requires.

 d. Basis for Exclusion or Exemption from Automatic Declassification. Information shall be
excluded or exempted from automatic declassification provisions based on content. Exclusion or
exemption shall not be based solely on the type of document or record in which the information
is found.

