 (4) Except as provided in subparagraphs 12.b.(5) and (6) of this section, provide an
initial written response to each challenge within 60 days. If not responding fully to the challenge
within 60 days, the DoD Component shall acknowledge the challenge and provide an expected
date of response. This acknowledgment shall include a statement that, if no response is received
within 120 days, the challenger has the right to forward the challenge to the ISCAP for decision.
The challenger may also forward the challenge to the ISCAP if the Component has not
responded to an appeal within 90 days of receipt of the appeal. DoD Component responses to
those challenges it denies shall include the challenger’s right to appeal to the ISCAP.

 (5) Not process the challenge if it concerns information that has been the subject of a
challenge within the preceding 2 years or is the subject of pending litigation. The DoD
Component shall inform the challenger of the situation and appropriate appellate procedures.

 (6) Refer challenges involving RD to the Department of the Energy and FRD to the
Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense, Nuclear Matters (DASD(NM)) and notify the challenger
accordingly. Do not include a statement about forwarding the challenge to the ISCAP in the
notification letter, as these categories of information are not within the purview of the ISCAP.

 (7) In case a classification challenge involves documents that contain RD and/or FRD as
well as information classified under Reference (d), delete (redact) the RD and FRD portions of
the documents before the document is forwarded to the ISCAP for review.

 ENCLOSURE 5

 DECLASSIFICATION AND CHANGES IN CLASSIFICATION

1. DECLASSIFICATION POLICY

 a. Per Reference (d), information shall be declassified as soon as it no longer meets the
standards for classification. In some exceptional cases, the need to protect information still
meeting these standards may be outweighed by the public interest in disclosure of the
information, and in these cases the information should be declassified. Pursuant to DoD policy
in Reference (b), information shall remain classified only as long as:

 (1) It is in the best interest of national security to keep it protected.

 (2) Continued classification is in accordance with the requirements of Reference (d).

