 (e) If requesting an exemption from declassification at 50 or 75 years, a statement of
support from the USD(I&S), as the designee of the Secretary of Defense. DoD Components that
are elements of the Intelligence Community shall also provide a statement of support from the
DNI.

 (2) Requesting an Exemption for a File Series. OCAs shall provide the following
information:

 (a) A description of the file series.

 (b) An explanation of why the information within the file series is almost invariably
exempt from automatic declassification and why the information must remain classified for a
longer period of time.

 (c) A specific date or event for declassification of the information, not to exceed
December 31 of the year that is 50 years from the date of origin of the records (75 years for
50 year old information), except a date or event is not required when the information within the
file series almost invariably identifies a confidential human source or a human intelligence
source or key design concepts of weapons of mass destruction.

 (d) If appropriate, a statement that the exemption will be cited subsequently in
applicable classification guides to provide declassification guidance.

 (e) If requesting an exemption from declassification at 50 or 75 years, a statement of
support from the USD(I&S), as the designee of Secretary of Defense. DoD Components that are
elements of the Intelligence Community shall also provide a statement of support from the DNI.

 d. When to Request an Exemption. Exemptions shall be requested not more than 5 years
and not less than 1 year before information is subject to automatic declassification except for
75- year exemptions which shall be requested in accordance with subparagraph 13.b.(3) of this
section.

 e. Who Identifies and Requests an Exemption. In all cases, OCAs are responsible for
identifying information that should be exempted from automatic declassification. The type of
exemption requested (i.e., specific information, specific records, or file series) determines who
must request the exemption.

