17. WAIVERS AND EXCEPTIONS. Unless otherwise specified in this Volume, the DoD
Components must submit requests for information security waivers or exceptions to the
standards and requirements in this Manual through the chain of command to the USD(I&S),
Attn: Director, Security Policy and Oversight Division, for approval.

 a. If the waiver or exception involves any of the other security areas (e.g., industrial,
physical, personnel), it must first be internally coordinated with the applicable security office(s)
before the waiver or exception request is submitted for endorsement by the senior agency official (SAO).
This may involve a separate request for waiver or exception based on the requirements of the
other security policy issuances.

 b. Waivers or exceptions pertaining to foreign government (including NATO) information
and security arrangements for international programs must only be submitted to and approved by
the USD(P), who will ensure concurrence by the USD(I&S) if the request involves the any of the
security disciplines.

 c. The Military Departments will forward requests for waiver or exception through their
SAOs for endorsement before submitting such requests to the USD(I&S) for approval. DoD
Components will provide all requests for waiver or exception, including those approved by the
USD(P), to the USD(I&S) through the Director, Security Policy and Oversight Division. The
USD(I&S) and USD(P) shall be responsible for promptly notifying the Director, ISOO, of
approved waivers and exceptions involving References (d) and (f).

 d. Requests for information security waivers and exceptions shall contain sufficient
information to permit a complete and thorough analysis to be made of the impact of approval on
national security. Minimally, requests must identify the specific provision(s) of this Manual for
which the waiver or exception is sought (cite this Manual by volume, enclosure, and paragraph)
and provide rationale and justification for the request, including negative impacts to cost,
schedule, mission, or operations; a mission analysis summary to identify vulnerabilities and risk
management considerations; a summary of proposed mitigation measures to reduce risk; and the

necessary duration for any waivers). A sample template memorandum for requesting waivers and
exceptions is at the Appendix to this enclosure. Current waivers and exceptions will continue to
be valid until they are due for renewal.

