19. UPGRADING CLASSIFIED INFORMATION. Classified information may be upgraded to
a higher level of classification only by officials who have been delegated the appropriate level of
OCA in accordance with Enclosure 4 of this Volume. The information to be upgraded must
continue to meet the standards for classification specified in Enclosure 4 of this Volume. When
making the decision to upgrade the classification level, OCAs shall consider the benefits to
national security that will accrue from the higher classification against the costs associated with
upgrading (e.g., the requirement for upgraded clearances or storage facilities, notification costs)
and the ability to notify all holders of the information of the change so that the information shall
be uniformly protected at the higher level. The OCA making the upgrading decision is
responsible for notifying holders of the change in classification. For information subject to the
STIP (Reference (bk)), the OCA shall also notify the Defense Technical Information Center.
Upgraded information shall be marked as required by Enclosure 3 of Volume 2 of this Manual.

20. DECLASSIFYING FGI. Pursuant to Reference (d), FGI qualifies as an exemption to the
automatic declassification rule. Within the Department of Defense, every effort shall be made to
ensure that FGI is not subject to downgrading or declassification without the prior consent of the
originating government. FGI may exist in two forms: foreign documents in possession of the
Department of Defense, and foreign government classified information included within U.S.
Government documents.

 a. If FGI in the form of foreign documents in the possession of the Department of Defense
constitute permanently valuable records of the U.S. Government and are subject to the 25-year
automatic declassification rule, declassification officials shall consult with the originating
foreign government to determine whether it consents to declassification. If the originating
foreign government does not consent, the records shall be processed for exemption from
automatic declassification in accordance with section 13 of this enclosure. The agency head
shall determine whether exemption category 25X6, 25X9, or both should be applied.

