 c. Deciding to downgrade or declassify information. Adhering to security markings on
information or guidance stated in an appropriate security classification or declassification guide
is not considered a downgrading or declassification decision.

 d. Deciding challenges to classification or any appeals.

 e. Making foreign disclosure decisions pursuant to Reference (y).

 f. Making public release decisions pursuant to Reference (v).

 g. Committing to expenditure of U.S. Government funds. Guidelines within international or
host nation agreements or treaties may provide exceptions to this area of security administration.

 h. Conducting investigations of, or determining fault in, security incidents involving U.S.
Government or contractor personnel.

 i. Giving final approval or executing documents for filing in litigation, if documents assert
an official position of the Department of Defense, any DoD Component, or any other federal
agency.

 j. Escorting personnel, except where the foreign national is employed by DoD and the
foreign national escorts personnel:

 (1) As a specific function of his or her assigned duties.

 (2) Only to areas where U.S. personnel are embedded within locations or facilities that
are outside the continental United States.

 (3) Only in situations not detrimental to the interests of the DoD or the U.S.
Government.

 k. Accessing combinations at the entrance and exit doors or security containers that contain
non-releasable classified information or non-releasable CUI.

 l. Accessing codes or functions associated with the intrusion detection system or master
codes associated with access control devices.

 m. Accessing IT equipment, such as computers, printers, or fax equipment used to process
non-releasable classified information or non-releasable CUI.

 n. Constructing or modifying areas where classified information will be processed, unless
cleared U.S. national civil engineers provide oversight to all new construction and modifications
of facilities where classified information will be processed.

 o. Accessing SCIFs, except as stated in Volume 2 of Reference (j).

9. CLASSIFICATION AUTHORITY. Except for information subject to section 2011 et seq., of
title 42, U.S.C. (also known and hereinafter referred to as “The Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as
amended” (Reference (aq)), Reference (d) and this Manual provide the only authority for
applying security classification to information within the Department of Defense.

