file series. File units or documents arranged according to a filing system or kept together
because they relate to a particular subject or function, result from the same activity, document a
specific kind of transaction, take a particular form, or have some other relationship arising out of
their creation, receipt, or use, such as restrictions on access or use. Also documentary material,
regardless of its physical form or characteristics, that is arranged in accordance with a filing
system or maintained as a unit because it pertains to the same subject, function, or activity.

file series exemption. An exception to the 25-year automatic declassification provisions of
Reference (d). This exception applies to entire blocks of records, i.e., “file series,” within an
agency’s records management program. To qualify for this exemption, the file series must be
replete with exemptible information.

FOUO. A protective marking to be applied to unclassified information when disclosure to the
public of that particular record, or portion thereof, would reasonably be expected to cause a
foreseeable harm to an interest protected by one or more provisions of the FOIA. This includes
information that qualifies for protection pursuant to the provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974, as
amended. See Reference (bk) for detailed information on categories of information that may
qualify for exemption from public disclosure. The use of FOUO marking remains in effect until
the revised Volume 4 of this Manual is released.

FRD. Information removed from the RD category upon a joint determination by the Department
of Energy (or antecedent agencies) and the Department of Defense that such information relates
primarily to the military utilization of atomic weapons and that such information can be

safeguarded adequately as classified defense information. For purposes of foreign
dissemination, this information is treated in the same manner as RD.

heads of DoD activities. Heads, either military or civilian, of organizations, commands, and staff
elements subordinate to a DoD Component, with jurisdiction over and responsibility for the
execution of the organization’s mission and functions, including its information security
program. The official may carry the title of commander, commanding officer, or director, or
other equivalent title.

