 (4) File Series Exemptions Approved Prior to December 31, 2008. File series
exemptions approved by the President prior to December 31, 2008, shall remain valid without
any additional DoD Component action pending ISCAP review by the later of December 31,
2010, or December 31 of the year that is 10 years from the date of previous approval.

 (5) Declassification of 50-Year-Old Information in Previously Exempted Records. All
previously exempted records, both file series and specific information, that are 50 years or older
as of December 31, 2012, shall be automatically declassified by that date unless further
exempted in accordance with subparagraphs 13.b.(2) through 13.b.(4) of this section. All
existing records meeting the criteria shall be processed for declassification by December 31,
2012. Declassification actions shall be accomplished in accordance with the schedule and
priority issued by the NDC. After December 31, 2012, previously exempted records shall be
automatically declassified on December 31 of the year that is no more than 50 years from the
date of origin unless further exempted in accordance with this section.

 c. Exemption Requests. Requests for exemption shall include all information necessary for
making a decision. Requests to extend the duration of an exemption shall be processed in the
same manner as an initial request.

 (1) Requesting an Exemption for Specific Information or Specific Records. OCAs shall
provide the following information:

 (a) A detailed description of the information, in the form of a declassification guide.

 (b) An explanation of why the information should be exempt from automatic
declassification and must remain classified for a longer period of time.

 (c) A specific date or a specific and independently verifiable event for automatic
declassification of specific records that contain the information proposed for exemption. The
date or event shall not exceed December 31 of the year that is 50 years from the date of origin of
the records (75 years for 50 year old material), except a date or event is not required when the
information identifies a confidential human source or a human intelligence source or key design
concepts of weapons of mass destruction.

 (d) If appropriate, a statement that the exemption will be cited subsequently in
applicable classification guides to provide declassification guidance.

