 e. Exclusion of RD and FRD. Documents and other materials marked or containing RD or
FRD are excluded from the automatic declassification provisions of Reference (d) and this
Volume until the RD or FRD designation is properly removed. Such information shall remain
classified or shall be referred for a declassification review to the Department of Energy if RD or
the DASD(NM) if FRD.

 (1) In accordance with the provisions of section 3161 of Public Law 105-261
(Reference (bg) (also known as “The Kyl-Lott Amendment”), and its implementing plan, all
personnel who perform automatic declassification reviews on records that are highly likely to
contain RD or FRD must be trained and certified by the Department of Energy in the
identification of unmarked RD and FRD information. DoD Components shall report each
confirmed inadvertent release of RD or FRD occurring during declassification processes to the
Department of Energy and provide a copy to OUSD(I&S) Security Directorate.

 (2) When the RD or FRD pertains to defense nuclear information, declassification
reviews shall be referred to the DASD(NM), who has OCA for defense nuclear information, to
include joint OCA with the Department of Energy for FRD.

 (3) The Secretary of Energy determines when information concerning foreign nuclear
programs that was removed from the RD category in order to carry out provisions of
section 2673 of Reference (af) may be declassified. Unless otherwise determined by the
appropriate OCA, such information shall be declassified when comparable information
concerning the U.S. nuclear program is declassified.

 f. Integral File Block. Classified records within an integral file block that are otherwise
subject to automatic declassification in accordance with this section shall not be automatically
declassified until December 31 of the year that is 25 years from the date of the MOST RECENT
record or the date specified by the exemption instruction of the most recent exempted record,
whichever is later, within the file block. For purposes of automatic declassification, integral file
blocks shall contain only records dated within 10 years of the oldest record in the file block.

 g. Delays of Automatic Declassification. The following lists the scenarios for which
automatic declassification may be delayed.

