 (g) Whether the information is in the custody of NARA and whether the Archivist of
the United States must be notified of the reclassification as specified in subparagraph 7.b.(4) of
this section.

 (3) Once a reclassification action has occurred, it must be reported to all recipients and
holders, to the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs (herein after referred to as
“the National Security Advisor”) and to ISOO within 30 days. The notification to ISOO must
include how the “reasonably recoverable” decision was made, including the number of recipients
or holders, how the information was recovered, and how the recipients and holders were notified.
The Secretaries of the Military Departments shall notify the National Security Advisor and ISOO
directly and provide an information copy to the USD(I&S). The Secretary of Defense, after
making reclassification decisions, will notify the National Security Advisor and ISOO of such
decisions.

 (4) For documents in the physical and legal custody of NARA that have been available
for public use, reclassification must also be reported to the Archivist of the United States, who
shall suspend public access pending approval of the reclassification action by the Director,
ISOO. The Secretaries of the Military Departments shall notify the Archivist directly and
provide an information copy to USD(I&S). The Secretary of Defense will notify the Archivist as
required for decisions involving other DoD Components. Disapproval of the reclassification
action by the Director, ISOO, may be appealed to the President through the National Security
Advisor. Public access shall remain suspended pending decision on the appeal.

 (a) OCAs shall notify the Secretary of Defense of the need to appeal ISOO decisions
through their DoD Component Head and the USD(I&S).

 (b) Notifications shall clearly articulate the compelling national security reasons for
reclassifying the information and shall counter the ISOO rationale for disapproving the
reclassification.

 (5) Once a final decision is rendered, OCAs shall update their security classification
guidance accordingly. The reclassified information must be marked and safeguarded in
accordance with the requirements of Volumes 2 and 3 of this Manual.

