 b. If DoD officials have reason to believe that the public interest in disclosure of information
outweighs the need for continued classification, they shall refer the matter to the appropriate
senior agency official appointed in accordance with section 5.4(d) of Reference (d), who shall
consult with the OCA. The senior agency official shall determine whether to declassify the
information.

 c. Classified information that has been declassified without proper authority remains
classified until declassified by an OCA with jurisdiction over the information.

 (1) Administrative action shall be taken to restore markings and controls, as appropriate.

 (2) If the information is in records in the physical and legal custody of NARA and has
been made available to the public:

 (a) The OCA shall, as part of determining if restoration of markings and controls is
appropriate, consider whether removing the information from public access will significantly
mitigate harm to the national security or otherwise draw undue attention to the information.

 (b) DoD or Military Department senior agency official shall provided written
notification to the Archivist of the United States, which shall include a description of the
record(s), the elements of information that are classified, the duration of classification, and the
specific authority for continued classification. OCAs in DoD Components other than the
Military Departments shall submit notifications to USD(I&S), through their chain of command,
for submission to the Archivist.

 (c) The issue shall be referred to the Director, ISOO if the information is more than
25 years old and the Archivist does not agree with the OCA’s determination that the information
remains classified. The information shall be withdrawn from public access pending resolution.

 d. Classified information shall be marked as declassified, as specified by Enclosure 3 of
Volume 2 of this Manual, before it is handled as unclassified. Holders of classified information
marked with a date or event on the “declassify on” line shall, when the date or event has passed,
confirm that the OCA(s) of the information has not extended the classification period. This can
be done by reference to a security classification or declassification guide or to other appropriate
guidance issued by the OCA or by consultation with the OCA. Once declassification is
confirmed, such information may be made publicly available only as provided in paragraph 1.e
of this section.

