declassification. The authorized change in the status of information from classified information
to unclassified information.

declassification authority

 The official who authorized the original classification, if that official is still serving in the
same position;

 The originator’s current successor in function, if that individual has OCA;

 A supervisory official of either the originator or his or her successor in function, if the
supervisory official has OCA; or

 Officials delegated declassification authority in writing by the agency head or the senior
agency official.

declassification guide. Written instructions issued by a declassification authority that describes
the elements of information regarding a specific subject that may be declassified and the
elements that must remain classified. May also be a guide providing classification and
declassification instructions specifically for information that is 25 years old or older and of
permanent historical value. A declassification guide is the most commonly used vehicle for
obtaining ISCAP approval of 25-year exemptions from the automatic declassification provisions
of Reference (d).

Defense Intelligence Components. All DoD organizations that perform national intelligence,
Defense Intelligence, and intelligence-related functions, including: the Defense Intelligence
Agency; the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, the National Reconnaissance Office, the
National Security Agency/Central Security Service, and the intelligence elements of the Active
and Reserve components of the Military Departments, including the United States Coast Guard
when operating as a service in the Navy.

derivative classification. Incorporating, paraphrasing, restating, or generating in new form
information that is already classified, and marking the newly developed material consistent with
the classification markings that apply to the source information. Includes the classification of
information based on classification guidance. The duplication or reproduction of existing
classified information is not derivative classification.

