 (1) When collateral Top Secret information is maintained in a sensitive compartmented
information facility (SCIF) or SAP secure facility, it may be handled in the same manner as SCI
and SAP materials once necessary receipts have been provided to the organization supplying the
materials. When collateral Top Secret material is taken out of a SCIF or SAP secure facility it
shall be reentered into the registry system for accountability.

 (2) Repositories, libraries, or activities that store large volumes of classified documents
may limit their annual inventory to that which access has been given in the past 12 months, and
10 percent of the remaining inventory.

 (3) Accountability for Top Secret SCI, SAP, and other special types of classified
information shall be in accordance with References (j) through (y), and other applicable
guidance.

 e. Other Security Management Roles

 (1) Assistant Security Manager. In large activities and where circumstances warrant,
activities may designate U.S. Government civilian or military members as assistant security
manager(s) to assist the activity security manager with program implementation, maintenance,
and local oversight.

 (2) Security Assistants. As warranted, activities may assign U.S. Government civilian,
military members, or contractor employees as security assistants to perform administrative
security functions under the direction of the activity security manager without regard for job
series or title or for rank, rate, or grade as long as they have the clearance required for the access
needed to perform their assigned duties and tasks. (While the scope of responsibilities and job
titles covered by the General Schedule (GS) 0086 Security Clerical and Assistance Series can be
consistent with the duties of a security assistant as described in this paragraph, the role of
security assistant as described in this paragraph does not require that civilian employees hold this
job series.)

 (3) Communication Security (COMSEC) Custodian. The COMSEC Custodian is the
activity head’s primary advisor on matters concerning the security and handling of COMSEC
information and hardware and the associated records and reports and functions in accordance
with NSA/CSS Policy Manual 3-16 (Reference (an)).

