 g. Notice to Information Holders. When information has been approved for exemption by
the ISCAP, the OCA must notify all known information holders. This may be done through
issuance of a memorandum or distribution of the declassification guide. DoD Components that
have ISCAP-approved declassification guides must ensure maximum dissemination to record
holders of the information. Holders shall re-mark documents in their possession to reflect the
exemption.

14. DECLASSIFICATION OF INFORMATION MARKED WITH OLD
DECLASSIFICATION INSTRUCTIONS

 a. In accordance with Reference (f), when information is marked with previously authorized
exemption categories X-1 through X-8, or with the instructions “OADR” (Originating Agency’s
Determination Required) or “MR” (Manual Review), including when preceded by “Source
marked,” use a declassification date of 25 years from the date of the source document or 25 years
from the current date if the source document date is not available, unless exempted in accordance
with section 13 of this enclosure.

 b. If imagery subject to E.O. 12951 (Reference (bi)) is marked with the declassification
instruction “DCI Only” or “DNI Only,” use “25X1, E.O. 12951” as the declassification
instruction, as specified by the DNI. (Contact the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency,
Classification Management (NGA/SISX) for assistance in determining whether specific imagery
is subject to E.O. 12951.) Otherwise, for documents marked with the declassification
instructions “DCI Only” or “DNI Only” which do NOT contain information subject to
Reference (bi), use a declassification date that is 25 years from the date of the source document
or 25 years from the current date if the source document date is not available.

15. REFERRALS IN THE AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATION PROCESS. Referrals are
required by References (d) and (f) to ensure timely, efficient, and effective processing of reviews
and to protect classified information from inadvertent disclosure. All referrals contained within
accessioned records will be processed through the NDC.

 a. Description. The referral process involves identification of information in records
containing classified information that originated with another DoD Component or Executive
Branch agency or the disclosure of which would affect the interests or activities of another DoD
Component or Executive Branch agency and that could reasonably be expected to fall within one
or more of the exemptions listed in subparagraph 13.b.(1) of this enclosure. Such records are

